Documentation for the CoreEval feature (#799)
Agoric/documentation: main/guides/coreeval/permissions.md

# Coding Permissions

> Write a json file with the permissions that the proposal will need. For example, [here](https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/blob/master/packages/inter-protocol/test/psm/gov-add-psm-permit.json) is the proposal Agoric created for the PSM contract:

Reviewer: _comment_:
The example is somewhat out of date with the code on master. Probably not a big deal.

Author: I definitely think that's fine. The additional changes are contract-specific. However, one of the changes appears to be upgrade-related, so after I document the upgrade API, I want to return to this section, update the permissions page, and discuss the additional properties.

> Write a json file with the permissions that the proposal will need. For example, [here](https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/blob/master/packages/inter-protocol/test/psm/gov-add-psm-permit.json) is the proposal Agoric created for the PSM contract:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Write a json file with the permissions that the proposal will need. For example, [gov-add-psm-permit.json](https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/blob/master/packages/inter-protocol/test/psm/gov-add-psm-permit.json) is the proposal Agoric created for the PSM contract:
```

Please let's keep accessibility in mind and use [meaningful link text](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tips/writing/#make-link-text-meaningful), avoiding "here" links.

Author: Fixed.

    "board": true,
    "chainStorage": true,
    "zoe": "zoe",
    "feeMintAccess": "zoe",
    "economicCommitteeCreatorFacet": "economicCommittee",
    "econCharterKit": true,
    "provisionPoolStartResult": true,
    "psmKit": true,
    "chainTimerService": "timer"
  },
  "produce": {
    "testFirstAnchorKit": true
  },
  "installation": {
    "consume": {
      "contractGovernor": true,
      "psm": true,
      "mintHolder": true
    }
  },
  "instance": {
    "consume": {
      "economicCommittee": true
    }
  },
  "issuer": {
    "produce": {
      "DAI": true
    },
    "consume": {
      "DAI": true
    }
  },
  "brand": {
    "consume": {
      "DAI": true,
      "IST": true
    },
    "produce": {
      "DAI": true
    }
  }
}
```
:::

## Consume Section

In this section you need to set all the permissions that your contract will need to be able to use (i.e., "consume"). Some of the listed permissions in the example PSM permission file above are of general interest to most contracts, while others are more specific to the PSM contract.

* **agoricNamesAdmin**: Grants write access to the Agoric name service. This permission is somewhat specific to the PSM contract.

> * **bankManager**: Grants access to bank-related functionality within ERTP and Zoe. Most contracts will need access.

Reviewer 2: `bankManager` is closely related to ERTP (and to cosmos) but not to Zoe, so I suggest taking Zoe out.

And I think most contracts will not need this very powerful capability: It's the right to manipulate nearly all cosmos assets in the chain.

That is: it's the capability/right to make a "bank" for any address, where a "bank" is a per-address right to make an ERTP purse for any denom registered in the vbank... which raises the question of "what's the vbank?" so we might want to leave this level of detail out of scope.

Author: The description for bankManager has been changed to: 

"Grants access to bank-related functionality within ERTP, allowing the contract to manipulate nearly all Cosmos assets in the chain. Because this capability is very powerful, this permission should only be granted to contracts that absolutely need it."

* **board**: Grants write access to the board name service. This permission is somewhat specific to the PSM contract.
* **chainStorage**: Grants write access to the chain storage node, which is required when running `agd query` commands. Thus, most contracts will need access to this.

> * **zoe**: When this permission is set to "zoe", it grqnts access to the Zoe framework. All contracts will need access to this.

Reviewer: grqnts -> grants

Author: Fixed.

> * **zoe**: When this permission is set to "zoe", it grants access to the Zoe framework. All contracts will need access to this.

Reviewer 3: It's probably worth mentioning above here that to "set" a permission, its value can be any truthy primitive.  The value itself is not meaningful to the proposal (`true`, `"zoe"`, `"timer"`, `"razzleflatz"` and `249`, are interchangeable and mean the same thing).

As a footnote, Agoric conventionally names its permission values for the identity of the home vat of the ocap corresponding to the permission.  This can be useful for visualizing the produce/consume dependencies between actions.

Then, I'd change all the "permission is set to XXX" just to be "permission is set".

```suggestion
* **zoe**: When this permission is set, it grants access to the Zoe framework. All contracts will need access to this.
```

Author: An explanation was added to the top of the Permissions page saying that any string will set a permission. Similarly, all the permission descriptions were simplified per your suggestion above.

> * **feeMintAccess**: When this permission is set to "zoe", the contract will be able to print money. Any contract that mints a currency will need access to this.

Reviewer: _fix_:
We rarely refer to ERTP assets as "money". Perhaps "mint ERTP assets"?

Author: Right you are. Fixed.

> * **feeMintAccess**: When this permission is set to "zoe", the contract will be able to create digital assets. Any contract that mints digital assets will need access to this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **feeMintAccess**: When this permission is set to "zoe", the contract will be able to create digital assets. Only contracts that mint privileged Agoric digital assets (not the unprivileged [`zcf.makeMint`](some link here)) will need access to this.
```

Author: feeMintAccess's description has been changed to pretty much match your suggested text.

* **economicCommitteeCreatorFacet**, **econCharterKit**, **provisionPoolStartResult**: These 3 permissions are required by governed contracts.

> * **chainTimerService**: When this permission is set to "timer", it grants access to the *chainTimerService*. All governed contracts need access to this so they know when the vote is complete.

Reviewer: _fix_:
the vote -> a vote

Author: Fixed.

## Produce Section

Specifies what, if anything, the contract produces. For example, the example PSM contract produces *testFirstAnchorKit* which is used for testing purposes.

## Installation Section 

Specifies what installations the contract requires. At a minimum, the contract itself should be listed as an installation. Governed contracts should include a *contractGovernor* installation.

## Instance Section

Specifies what instances, if any, the contract produces or consumes.

## Issuer Section

Specifies what tokens, if any, the contract issuer can produce or consume.

## Brand Section

> 

Reviewer: _question_:
How do the `brand section` and `issuer section` differ?

Author: I added the following sentence to the Brand Section to clarify: "Note that any brands that the contract may mint are not included in this section, unless they're also produced or consumed in some other capacity."

Reviewer 2: doesn't look like the change made it to this PR yet.

If you're talking about a change you haven't pushed yet, fair enough; I'll stand by.

Reviewer 3: This looks fixed now.

Reviewer 2: It still talks about minting brands.

Also, the brand section is all about sharing the brands created by a contract. I don't think "not included in this section" is on target.

The question was: how are the `brand` section and the `issuer` section different? They're different in that `makeIssuerKit` creates both a brand and an issuer (as well as a mint). The contract creator typically wants to share both of them with prospective clients. The brand is typically shared by producing an item in the `brand` section, and the issuer is shared by producing an item in the `issuer` section. The `permit` here is so that governance can control the namespace.

Author: I'm resolving this conversation here, and taking the discussion to Dan's official review below where the same issue is raised.

Reviewer 2: > I'm not seeing it mention minting brands anymore.

ah. I see the fix now. thanks.

Reviewer 2: > unless the Issuer is also named "DAI"?

Yes, as usual, the DAI asset has 3 facets; brand, issuer, and mint. The DAI brand is shared via the `brand` section; the DAI issuer is shared in the `issuer` section, and the DAI mint is held closely rather than being shared.

# Coding Permissions

> Write a json file with the permissions that the proposal will need. For example,

Author: No, there wasn't any real reason for the differences. They were just terms carried over from different sources. The terms *should* be standardized, but I wasn't sure which term best captures what's going on. I'm still not sure, actually.

I've changed the topic to largely conform to your "capabilities" language. The terms should be more standardized (permit list vs. permissions. vs capabilities), but (as I said above) I'm not 100% sure about which term I like best, and the topic reads OK as-is. So... it's good enough or now, I suppose.

[gov-add-psm-permit.json](https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/blob/master/packages/inter-protocol/test/psm/gov-add-psm-permit.json) 

> is the proposal Agoric created for the PSM contract. Note that permissions are set by listing the

Author: The text has been changed to the suggested passage.

permission and setting it to any String. Thus,`"bankManager": true` and `"bankManager": false` are
equivalent; they both set the `bankManager` permission.

::: details Show example permissions file
```
{
  "consume": {
    "agoricNamesAdmin": true,
    "bankManager": true,
    "board": true,
    "chainStorage": true,
    "zoe": "zoe",
    "feeMintAccess": "zoe",
    "economicCommitteeCreatorFacet": "economicCommittee",
    "econCharterKit": true,
    "provisionPoolStartResult": true,
    "psmKit": true,
    "chainTimerService": "timer"
  },
  "produce": {
    "testFirstAnchorKit": true
  },
  "installation": {
    "consume": {
      "contractGovernor": true,
      "psm": true,
      "mintHolder": true
    }
  },
  "instance": {
    "consume": {
      "economicCommittee": true
    }
  },
  "issuer": {
    "produce": {
      "DAI": true
    },
    "consume": {
      "DAI": true
    }
  },
  "brand": {
    "consume": {
      "DAI": true,
      "IST": true
    },
    "produce": {
      "DAI": true
    }
  }
}
```
:::

> ## Consume Section

Author: Good point. The titles of the Top Level Consume & Top Level Produce sections have been changed to explicitly state that they're the top level.

In this section you need to set all the permissions that your contract will need to be able to use
(i.e., "consume"). Some of the listed permissions in the example PSM permission file above are of
general interest to most contracts, while others are more specific to the PSM contract.

* **agoricNamesAdmin**: Grants write access to the Agoric name service. This permission is somewhat specific to the PSM contract.
* **bankManager**: Grants access to bank-related functionality within ERTP, allowing the contract to manipulate nearly all Cosmos assets in the chain. Because this capability is very powerful, this permission should only be granted to contracts that absolutely need it.

> * **board**: Grants write access to the board name service. This permission is somewhat specific to the PSM contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **board**: Grants write access to the [board name service](https://docs.agoric.com/guides/wallet/#the-agoric-board).
```

That is: (1) the board isn't specific to the PSM and (2) we have a section that documents it; let's refer to it. (I might not be using the right URL convention)

Author: Fixed. 

Also, although your URI was well-formed & valid, I converted it to the internal-reference format that the other URI in the docs use. (i.e. the URI is now /guides/wallet/README.md#the-agoric-board)

* **chainStorage**: Grants write access to the chain storage node, which is required when running `agd query` commands. Thus, most contracts will need access to this.
* **zoe**: When this permission is set, it grants access to the Zoe framework. All contracts will need access to this.
* **feeMintAccess**: When this permission is set, the contract will be able to create digital assets. Only contracts that mint privileged Agoric digital assets (i.e., not the unprivileged **[zcf.makeZDFMint()](/reference/zoe-api/zoe-contract-facet.md#zcf-makezcfmint-keyword-assetkind-displayinfo)**) will need access to this.
* **economicCommitteeCreatorFacet**, **econCharterKit**, **provisionPoolStartResult**: These 3 permissions are required by governed contracts.
* **chainTimerService**: When this permission is set, it grants access to the *chainTimerService*. All governed contracts need access to this so they know when a vote is complete.

## Produce Section

> Specifies what, if anything, the contract produces. For example, the example PSM contract produces *testFirstAnchorKit* which is used for testing purposes.

Reviewer 2: I'd rather not promote `testFirstAnchorKit` to a documented product feature. It would be more typical to produce a brand or an issuer... and perhaps a `kit` holding the admin and creator facets like [feeDistributorKit](https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/blob/bf164a05f425460ad357841b537b8dbc044357a2/packages/inter-protocol/src/proposals/econ-behaviors.js#L50), `reserveKit`, `auctioneerKit` etc.

Author: I'm not promoting testFirstAnchorKit so much as using it as an example. It's the only item listed in PSM's Produce section, so I'm (briefly) mentioning what it is.

BTW, if a Brand were to be produced, wouldn't it appear in the Brand section rather than this one?

Reviewer 2: > if a Brand were to be produced, wouldn't it appear in the Brand section

yes.

## Installation Section 

> Specifies what well-known installations the contract requires. At a minimum, the contract itself should be listed as an installation. Governed contracts should include a *contractGovernor* installation.

Reviewer 2: Should we be explicit that "well-known" means that it goes into (or comes from) `agoricNames`?

That is: `installation: { consume: { contractGovernor: true } }` means that the script will get access to the equivalent of `E(agoricNames).lookup('installation', 'contractGovernor')`

Or perhaps leave the details of the NameHub API until later? I just made an issue for it:

 - #807

Author: Yeah, let's handle this issue in a separate PR.

## Instance Section

Specifies what instances, if any, the contract produces or consumes.

## Issuer Section

Specifies what **[Issuers](/reference/ertp-api/issuer.md)**, if any, the contract produces or consumes.

## Brand Section

Specifies what **[Brands](/reference/ertp-api/brand.md)**, if any, the contract produces or consumes.
Note that any **Brands** associated with digital assets that the contract mints 

> are not included in this section, unless they're also produced or consumed in some other capacity.

Reviewer 2: I still don't understand why this "not included in this section" note is here. It seems wrong.

Author: It was based on a misunderstanding I had of what the Brand & Issuer sections contained. I've deleted the note.

# Coding Permissions

Write a json file with the permissions that the proposal will need. For example,
[gov-add-psm-permit.json](https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/blob/master/packages/inter-protocol/test/psm/gov-add-psm-permit.json) 
is the proposal Agoric created for the PSM contract. Note that permissions are set by listing the

> permission and setting it to any String. Thus,`"bankManager": true` and `"bankManager": false` are

Author: Changed the text per your suggestion.

## Consume Section

In this section you need to set all the permissions that your contract will need to be able to use
(i.e., "consume"). Some of the listed permissions in the example PSM permission file above are of
general interest to most contracts, while others are more specific to the PSM contract.

* **agoricNamesAdmin**: Grants write access to the Agoric name service. This permission is somewhat specific to the PSM contract.
* **bankManager**: Grants access to bank-related functionality within ERTP, allowing the contract to manipulate nearly all Cosmos assets in the chain. Because this capability is very powerful, this permission should only be granted to contracts that absolutely need it.
* **board**: Grants write access to the board name service. This permission is somewhat specific to the PSM contract.
* **chainStorage**: Grants write access to the chain storage node, which is required when running `agd query` commands. Thus, most contracts will need access to this.
* **zoe**: When this permission is set, it grants access to the Zoe framework. All contracts will need access to this.

> * **feeMintAccess**: When this permission is set, the contract will be able to create digital assets. Only contracts that mint privileged Agoric digital assets (i.e., not the unprivileged **[zcf.makeZDFMint()](/reference/zoe-api/zoe-contract-facet.md#zcf-makezcfmint-keyword-assetkind-displayinfo)**) will need access to this.

Author: Fixed,
